Hi, everyone.
In this next lecture, we will go through some game set up.
All right, so the first thing that I would like to discuss is where you can get this Firefox developer
edition.
It is available at developer, dot org, Firefox developer.
If you just go ahead and if you just type or search for Firefox developer edition, hopefully you will
see the link first.
This is in case you would like to keep up with me exactly like I do code along exactly like I do have
the same kind of set up, the same kind of browser and the same kind of viscose setup.
You could go that you could do this, but it is perfectly safe to use your Chrome Chrome browser.
I had a bug and I'm sure you're not going to have that.
And it is safe.
You could use that.
But I prefer Firefox for this game because of their responsiveness thing that we should go over and
because there is going to be a lot of that in this game.
I this is for me, it is easier even for my previous course.
I did Firefox for the most part, for for example, I think 75, 70 percent of the course was Firefox.
I started with Chrome, but then I switched to Firefox because the Firefox console is way more intuitive
than it is for the Chrome.
There is actually a lot of things that you're going to get if you are working with e-mail and see a
system that is, of course, you're going to get a lot of things.
It is even going to give you some notes.
If you have a mistake, it is even going to tell you where your mistake is.
It is going to give you an outline for your flux containers, for your great containers and that sort
of thing.
So when it comes to HDMI and Cyesis, I do prefer Firefox over Chrome, but when it comes to JavaScript,
I prefer Chrome over any other browser.
That's just a fact that the that everybody agrees.
I think for the most part people agree because Chrome is like there are some some things that are only
implemented in Chrome.
For example, the speech Santarus that we went over, that is for now just implemented in the Chrome.
But Firefox is powerful as well.
It is just a matter of preference.
OK, so this is where you can get it.
And I would like to show you one more thing in case you're wondering about this theme, this theme,
I have changed it and you can go ahead and download it from the marketplace.
It is one dark pro.
I really love this theme.
This is like it truly this is the atoms iconic one dark theme.
I think this is the atoms code ed theme.
Very, very nice theme.
Right.
So in case you're wondering about that as well, and I have included a link here and that is to a Fabricant
in case you're getting that message and the console, that 404 cannot get Fabricant fabric on that icon,
that sort of message.
If you if you're getting it, then just go ahead and insert this in the head part of your in the head
section of the e-mail document, and you will you'll never see that message again.
OK, it's just just a hack that you should do.
And that message is actually nothing.
You could go ahead and ignore it as well.
And let's go over this style, which is very minimal.
We have a reset.
We have the body over Florida and the canvas is display block.
Aside from the script that we have included in the body, we literally have nothing else in the body.
We are not going to include anything on as far as the canvas is concerned, we will be creating that
dynamically inside the JavaScript.
So let's go ahead and let's actually start coding this, the first thing that I would like to create
is going to be our game parameters, right?
So I just want to give you a heads up as well.
And this might not happen that often.
And this is because there are a lot of logic behind what's actually what what you saw on the screen.
Right.
And there are going to be some times when I would like to extend the length of a lecture beyond 20 minutes
or even beyond 30 minutes.
I'm not going to go to 40 not I'm going to I may go to 40, but I'm not going to move beyond 40 minutes.
I would like to keep it a 20 minute mark because there is a lot of continuity in this game.
And if I, like, keep this game in short, like lectures, like seven minute lectures and short bursts,
then you're going to lose that continuity.
And that's even easier for me if I just create seven minute lectures.
And that is not that is going to be a better feeling for them because a 20 minute lecture is more prone
to issues and bugs than a seven minute lecture.
Right.
But because of the continuity, for the sake of the continuity of this game, continuity of the logic,
I would like to keep like lectures not to a maximum length, but to the length that they actually require.
So this game is actually created in Bunte in chunks.
So each chunk of the game is going to have like a certain amount of time, some chunks, maybe five
minutes, some chunks, maybe 10 minutes, some chunks, maybe 30 minutes.
So if it is 30 minutes, then bear with me because we are going to do a lot of things.
We are going to create we are going to create an awesome game.
And almost like a lot of concepts of JavaScript are going to be used here is in especially the object
oriented paradigm.
So in case you're even having trouble understanding that, this is also a good practice for you, too.
So you will see that how powerful JavaScript can get.
So without further ado, let's go ahead and let's start that.
So I will be creating all these everything from scratch.
I will try to do that.
So the first thing that I would like to create is going to be the paddle with and I'm going to put it
to zero point one now.
Zero point one is going to be the fraction of the screen with.
And the reason for that is whenever you go smaller, the paddle is going to get smaller.
So if I go smaller, you can see that paddles with is getting smaller.
If I go big, the paddles with is going to get bigger.
Right.
So that is going to be a fraction of the screen width.
And next stop, we are going to have our paddle and rescore speed, which you know what it is.
It is going to be zero point five.
Now, this is going to be a fraction of the speed, the screen width per second.
And it means that it is going to take two seconds for this paddle to cross the screen to get from one
side of the screen to the next side.
Next up, we are going to have the ball speed.
And I've said it to 4.5, you could set it to higher a higher value than that, right?
Then we have a concert ball spin.
And you know what this ball spin is?
That is when it hits the brick, it it goes in like it.
It has a deflect angle.
It deflects a little.
And we have set it to zero point to now the maximum deflection is going to be one.
If you set it to one, you're going to get a maximum deflection.
But we want a minimal one.
So let's create our wall as well.
And this is going to have zero point zero two two size.
This size is going to be the size for the wall, for the ball, for the part and for the panel as a
fraction of the shortest screen dimension.
So what I would like to do is I would like to copy these comments and I would like to put them here
because this is going to be a very large game and.
All right, so what did I do there?
And this is going to help you a lot, these comments, in case you have some trouble, in case you have
trouble understanding them, these are going to help you a lot.
I've written them here and I want you to have them as well.
I don't want you to really worry about these parameters that we specify here.
All right, so now we are done with this, and the next thing that I would like to do is I would like
to come down and I would like to create some colors as well.
So this lecture is is is dedicated to set up.
So the first color that I would like to create is going to be the background color and I'm going to
set it to block.
You can't change it.
You can set it to whatever you want.
For example, if I change it from here to blue, you're going to see that it is blue.
It's up to you, whichever you think is going to look cool or look better.
I want to stick to the original as much as I can, and I'm going to create three more colors as well.
So the next one is going to be color wall, which I'm going to set it to gray.
Let's say gray, not black, gray, just great.
The next one is going to be color, paddle, paddle, and right after that we are going to have a ball.
So for both of them, we are going to have you could change the color as well.
But I'm just going to set it to white.
Perfect right after that.
What I want to do is I want to grab I don't want to define some definitions.
I want to do some definitions and these definitions.
Definitions are responsible for the sorry, not definitions.
Why do I keep definitions, I want to define some directions, not definitions are and these directions
are going to specify which direction it is that the ball or the paddle is moving.
So the first round, I'm going to set it and I'm going to give it a value of zero.
The next one I'm going to say to.
Right.
So if it is going to go to right, there's going to be one.
And if it stops.
It is going to have a value of two, so these are the directions perfecto.
First, right after that, I'm going to grab our dimensions and I'm just going to declare them, so
I'm going to say with.
And then height and then wall.
All right, so.
OK, so right after that, what I would like to do is I would like to set up the canvas so we can actually
see something.
So setting up the canvas and context.
Now, in this lecture, which we could use the canvas context word itself, but why should why don't
we just go ahead and, like, come up with a shorthand for a common shorthand is Sirtex.
But I don't like that codecs.
Let's say canvas Alamin document that now the element is not present in the table, so I will be creating
it here.
The Alamin name is Canvas and then I'm going to grab the document Darte Body.
And I'm going to say a Penn child, I penned this canvas, a Penn child, the canvas element, perfect.
And then I'm going to grab the initialise the set of the context.
So if I do, can.
Ex, con or con or context, I think Conex context think that looks cool.
So this is going to be a recanvas context.
You could use whatever you want, of course.
So canvas aliment, get context and the context is going to be 2D.
Let's save that, let's actually go ahead and open this up with live server and there it is.
This is our canvas and we have created the canvas, but we have not provided the canvas any height or
any width or any sort of any any height, any worth or any kinds of dimensions.
So we will be doing that shortly.
Ah, right, so right after that, what I would like to do is I would like to go ahead and create our
game loop, so I'm just going to call it I'm just going to give you a bigger comment, the game.
We will be having a ton of functions, so I would like to like make these functions comments a lot of
unique, so you keep track of where the functions actually are.
So I'm just going to put it right here, OK?
I think that is too much in case you're screwing your laptop screen with a smile, then this is going
to mess up your in this entire code.
So I'm just going to make it.
Let's do this, that's even big, so I'm just going to decrease this side further.
OK, I hope now this is cool, right, so we will be using this for naming your functions.
Now let's create the function.
I'm going to say function, I'm going to call it play game.
And this function is going to request animation from and in there we are going to pass and the play
game.
Right.
And OK, so what this is going to do is this is going to graph for the animation frame.
And each time we call that animation frame, this this entire function is going to get called and this
entire function is going to get called for like 60 times for one second.
That is because of the aspect, the refresh rate of our screen.
All right.
So we have a defined our dimensions.
Now, let's go ahead and let's actually call this function.
So I'm going to say play game and I'm going to call that function.
Now, this function is actually running.
OK, so the next thing that I would like to do is I would like to create a set, a dimension's function.
So I'm going to come down, I'm going to come down there, I'm going to grab that comment and I'm going
to put it right there.
And I'm going to say set dimensions.
Let's tussin the function keyboard as well.
So let's create the let's say function, set dimensions, set dimensions, set dimensions.
Perfect.
There is not going to be any parameter.
So the height now, you know, we have declared the height.
So the height is going to be the window dot in our height.
The width is going to be window dot enter with the wall.
It's going to be our wall.
Times now, if the devices are horizontal, sorry, if the device is high, it is less than the devices
with, what does it mean?
It means that the device is actually in landscape mode and in that mode, what do we want to do?
We want to keep the walls with or thickness to based off the height of that device.
Otherwise you are going to do it based off the width.
So if the device is high, it is less than the devices with.
It means that the screen as it means the screen is landscape.
So we want the walls to be times the height, otherwise we want it to be wartimes with right now, let's
grab our canvas element.
That with so the canvas width is going to be equal to width and the canvas is height.
Is going to be equal to height.
Perfect, and I think that is going to be it for now, for this said dimension's function, OK, so
the only thing remaining here is for us to actually call this function and to to be able to see the
result.
So on top of this game loop, what I would like to do is I'm going to comment.
I'm going to grab that comment.
I'm going to put it here.
So this is going to be the resize event.
I'm going to call it resize event or let's just call it resize windows or resize window event.
So for this, we are going to grab our window, not documents a window dot our the center and the event
is going to be precise.
And when the event is resized, we are going to call the the set dimensions function.
So now the function is called here.
What I would like to do, as I would like to come here and write on top of this play game, I would
like to execute the function right here.
So let's say let's come here and.
All right, so the reason that we don't see anything yet is because we haven't drawn our background
yet.
So what I would like to do is I would like to come down here this why is this certain dimensions?
It should be set dimensions.
You know what?
I'm going to go on top of this set dimension's.
Function and let's copy this comment, let's put it right here and I'm going to call this function draw.
Background, perfect, so now what it is that we want to do, we want to a background, each time the
screen is being read, the screen is being refreshed.
All right, so we are going to grab this drawback background, define it here, and we will be calling
it inside our play game function.
So let's say function.
Draw back a grand and what it is that we want to do, we basically want to draw a rectangle that is
going to be our canvas.
So we are going to grab the canvas context and we are going to say Phil style.
So what is different style color?
It is going to be the color color B.G. that we have specified.
And we are going to grab our canvas context and we are going to say, Phil RACT.
What is the zero, the exposition zero y position zero, the U.S. is going to be the canvas element
dot with and the height is going to be the canvas element at height.
Perfect.
So stop it, save it there and come here.
Why don't we see that?
So it is it has a value.
Why do we have to color pages.
How do we have to color backgrounds.
So we have called it right here as well.
So it is a concept that fills style.
Have we done any mistake in here?
So we have canvas element that get context to canvas element that create a document that create element,
document that body canvas element.
We have done everything perfectly fine.
Hmm.
So we have our canvas with we have our oh we didn't call this background even though even though I told
you that we need to call it so I'm going to call this a drawback ground function right there.
So let's save it now.
There we go.
So this is our canvas.
Our canvas has been successfully drawn.
So I hope you can see the difference between this council and the canvas.
So for that, you know what?
Let's set it to dark.
I won't be changing it if I remember, and I will be changing it to the block.
It doesn't.
I tried many colors, but it didn't work.
So let's try dark, dark blue.
It didn't look good.
So I'm going to keep it to black.
And I'm sure you can get the gravity, get the difference between the console.
The console is right here.
This is our canvas.
So we have successfully drawn our canvas.
And that's it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.